#8091 updates to release checklist (#8164)
geosolutions-it/MapStore2: docs/developer-guide/release.md

- [ ] If major release (YYYY.XX.00), create a branch `YYYY.XX.xx`  (`xx` is really `xx`, example: 2018.01.xx)
- [ ] If major release, Change [QA Jenkins job](http://build.geo-solutions.it/jenkins/view/MapStore2/job/MapStore2-QA-Build/) to build the new branch, enable the job continuous deploy by updating the `branch` parameter in the build configuration page to `YYYY.XX.xx`
- [ ] Check version in `package.json`. (as for semantic versioning the major have to be 0 until the npm package has not a stable API).
    - [ ] Take note of current version of mapstore in `package.json` in master branch, it should be in the form 0.x.0
    - [ ] If major release, make pr and merge on master **0.&lt;x-incremented&gt;.0**
    - [ ] if minor release, make pr and merge on stable YYYY.XX.xx **0.x.&lt;number-of-minor-version&gt;**
- [ ] Create a milestone on GitHub with the same name of the release (vYYYY.XX.xx)
    - [ ] assign the label "current-release" to all the issues and Prs of the current zenhub release
    - [ ] use the label to filter the issues on github and assign to all the issues and Prs the milestone created
    - [ ] remove assignments of "current-release" 

> - [ ] Prepare PR for updating `CHANGELOG.md` for **master** and **stable** [Instructions](https://mapstore.readthedocs.io/en/latest/developer-guide/release/#changelog-generation)

Reviewer: Here I indicated to "update" the changelog because we should ideally to the changelog merged when fixing the tag.

```suggestion
- [ ] Prepare PR for updating `CHANGELOG.md` for **master** and **stable** [Instructions](https://mapstore.readthedocs.io/en/latest/developer-guide/release/#changelog-generation)
```

Author: sorry, but what you write is not very english, can you explain better?
you mean that we need to have changelog PR merged before creating tag and publish the release?

- [ ] Fix `pom.xml` dependencies stable versions ( no `-SNAPSHOT` usage release).
- [ ] Update the version of java modules on the stable branch to a stable, incremental version.

>     - [ ] Run `mvn release:update-versions -DdevelopmentVersion=<version> -Pprinting,printingbundle,release
> ` to update package version, where <VERSION> is the version of the java packages (e.g. `1.2.2`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - [ ] Run `mvn release:update-versions -DdevelopmentVersion=<version> -Pprinting,printingbundle,release` to update package version, where <VERSION> is the version of the java packages (e.g. `1.2.2`).
```

    - [ ] Manually update project pom templates to use `mapstore-services` of `<VERSION>`
- [ ] Release a stable `mapstore-services`. (from `2022.01.xx` also mapstore-webapp (java/web) should be deployed for new project system and product). 

>   - [ ] for mapstore-webapp use `mvn clean install deploy -f java/pom.xml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - [ ] Use `mvn clean install deploy -f java/pom.xml` to deploy `mapstore-services` and `mapstore-webapp`.
```

>   - [ ] for the product use `mvn clean install deploy -f product/pom.xml` if this does not work it can be ignored

Reviewer: Thinking well, I should not deploy the war at this stage, we may have didn't compiled JS part so we may publish something not well done. Let's remove this step.
```suggestion
```

- [ ] create on [ReadTheDocs](https://readthedocs.org/projects/mapstore/) project the version build for `YYYY.XX.xx` (click on "Versions" and activate the version of the branch)
- [ ] Test on QA [https://qa-mapstore.geosolutionsgroup.com/mapstore/](https://qa-mapstore.geosolutionsgroup.com/mapstore/)
    * Any fix must be done on **YYYY.XX.xx**. The fixes will be manually merged on master
    * Test **everything**, not only the new features

>     * Test creation  of a standard project and run the internal backend, with `npm run backend` and `npm start`, then check localhost:8081 that homepage is empty

Reviewer: We have also to configure webpack now to do this test, so I should not specify too much the instructions. Hopefully it will become the new standard way of dev in the next major, so we can remove it in the near future :+1: 

```suggestion
    * Test creation of a standard project 
    * Test the local dev backend (`npm run backend`)
```

Author: this line was specifically targeting the test of a standard project that was using internal backend, 
so I would leave this at least

consider that giving less details is also problematic
and having this automated in an hypotetical future CI workflow 
does not leave out the fact the we have to do this kind of testing

- [ ] Lunch the [stable deploy](https://build.geo-solutions.it/jenkins/view/MapStore2/job/MapStore2-Stable/) to install the latest stable version on official demo, remember to change version to **YYYY.XX.mm** 
- [ ] Manually edit the `localConfig.json` on mapstore.geosolutionsgroup.com to fit the authkey for production (change from `authkey-qa` to `authkey-prod`)
  - [ ] `ssh geosolutions@mapstore.geosolutionsgroup.com`
  - [ ] `sudo su`
  - [ ] `vim /var/lib/tomcats8/mapstore2_release/webapps/mapstore/configs/localConfig.json`
  - [ ] to test the change has been applied, login on mapstore.geosolutionsgroup.com and verify that the layers from `gs-stable` are visible without errors (typically authentication errors that was caused by the wrong auth-key). 
- [ ] Commit the changelog to the stable branch **YYYY.XX.xx**
- [ ] Create a [github draft release](https://github.com/geosolutions-it/MapStore2/releases)
  - [ ] branch **YYYY.XX.xx** 
  - [ ] tag **vYYYY.XX.mm** (create a new tag from UI after entering this value)
  - [ ] release name equal to tag **vYYYY.XX.mm**  

>   - [ ] description describe the major changes and link the Changelog paragraph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - [ ] description describe the major changes and the links to issues copying the Changelog paragraph.
```

- [ ] Prepare a PR towards master branch **YYYY.XX.xx** in order to reset versions of java modules to `-SNAPSHOT`

>     - `mvn versions:set -DnewVersion=<SNAPSHOT_VERSION> -DprocessAllModules -DgenerateBackupPoms=false`

Author: it was not working that one, it kept asking the version

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/11991428/166921686-e390b198-6caa-4019-af25-dd14aaaf517c.png)

>     - `mvn versions:set -DnewVersion=<SNAPSHOT_VERSION> -DprocessAllModules -DgenerateBackupPoms=false`

Author: maybe we can create scripts in package.json to handle these maven scripts?

>     - `mvn versions:set -DnewVersion=<SNAPSHOT_VERSION> -DprocessAllModules -DgenerateBackupPoms=false`

Reviewer: Probably we can do something better in the future. Understanding better the mvn release plugin (there are commands like release:prepare and release:roolback or clean that can be studied to check if they can do our job.
